# Mechanical SAM specifications

The memory module is sized to work on perforated steel sheet

The sheet from RS was measured at 494mm across 57 long gaps, so 8.66666 (Recurring) mm between addresses; 495 between 99 short gaps, so 5.0mm between data positions.

The holes are 3mm in diameter and we use 4mm ball bearings.

A lead screw with a pitch which is a multiple of 8.66 mm would be ideal, but not essential - we can fix that with gearing.

Lead screws are commonly used in 3D printers and other CNC machines, and it would be useful to be able to reuse popular components. "T8-2-D8" seems to come up a lot in google searches.

Say, for example: http://www.amazon.com/printer-accessories-T8-2-D8-RepRap-length/dp/B0157PXKOK. There is a 400mm long version available which will allow 

That's a 2mm pitch, so we we will need 4 and 1 third revolutions to move one address. If you feed in from a 3:1 gear reduction, you'll need 13 revolutions. A cam running off this system should also run the rest of the operations.

# External logic

Although the "CPU" isn't part of this project, we need to check that it is reasonable to build it and supply the memory's requirements - particularly the 13-revolution seek and seek enable logic.

A worm gear on the drive shaft can drive a 26 tooth gear; this will have a cam on it which can run seek enable and other functions.

The sequence is: Starting after read has been set up,

* Cycle logic 1
* Cycle logic 2
* After logic 2, write should already have been performed. Direction should be set up.
* Seek. As Cycle logic 2 ends, a cam should move seek enable to set; this will catch the differential as it rotates, and after 13 revolutions, we should unset it.
* Cycle read power at the end of the seek.

Logic 1, Logic 2 and Seek are the main power-consuming operations.

If a 26T gear doesn't provide enough time/power to run the logic, we can move up to a 39T or 52T gear to provide more movement space for the logic blocks.

Moving up to a larger gear may also help with if you need more than two logic sequences.


# Another possibility for sequencing

It's possible we could run our own 13:1 reduction gear off the lead screws, and use this to sequence the read arm... although 13:1 is quite a big reduction. The seqeuncer would then lift the read arm, move 8.66mm then drop it and cycle the output drive; it can then even disengage the memory drive, if necessary. That would mean the only actions needed by the rest of the logic would be to set up the direction and engage the drive. This might be worth considering for a later version, but for now, I think we should just keep one camshaft in the main logic system and use bowden cables to operate the output bar.


Straight-cut gear sizes, mod 1:

10T: PCD = 11mm
At 12T and above PCD in mm is equal to the number of teeth.

Thus, 15 and 45 would work.

# Reverse gear

A 15T input gear, with two 20T idlers, and a 45T output gear was tried; this will work fine if the second idler is rotated close to the output gear. The movement angle between forward and reverse would be about 20 degrees.

